
   It's 8 p.m. and a dozen people wait in the lobby of
Boston City Hospital's emergency room. Behind the swinging doors,
Dr. Peter Moyer is called to a car accident victim who has only
slight injuries but slips so deeply into unconsciousness he can
barely be roused by two physicians.
   ``Have you taken any drugs?'' doctors ask. ``Cocaine, heroin,
marijuana?''
   It's a question that has become more and more commonplace in
emergency rooms already burdened by increased patient loads.
   ``There is an emergency in the emergency room right now in not
only New York and Boston but around the country and for a variety of
reasons,'' said Ken Raske, president of the Greater New York
Hospital Association.
   Drugs, and their side effects of AIDS, violence and psychiatric
disorders, play a role in the problems plaguing big-city emergency
rooms, Raske said.
   From 1986 to 1987, according to the National Institute on Drug
Abuse, cocaine-related cases in emergency rooms increased 122
percent in the District of Columbia; 86 percent in both Boston and
Atlanta; 80 percent in Detroit; 73 percent in Chicago; 53 percent in
Minneapolis; 50 percent in Texas, and 39 percent in New York City.
   Efforts to stem the rising tide of drug abuse comes at a time
when emergency rooms already face increased patient loads, partly
because of the reduced role of the traditional family doctor and
partly because there are more people who can't afford a private
doctor.
   ``It's really providing a major backlog in the emergency
department system,'' said Diane Howard, director of the American
Hospital Association's division of ambulatory care and health
promotion.
   ``The bottom line is that emergency care is being squeezed,''
Raske said. ``The real loser here is the patient.''

