New Argentine president quits after a week; March vote nixed
BUENOS AIRES - Argentina ended 2001 leaderless and penniless 
yesterday with its new interim president resigning a week into 
the job and the country fearing more bloodshed and the loss of 
savings frozen in the banks.

Plunged into chaos by looting and deadly riots that forced
Fernando de la Rua to resign as president a week ago, Argentina 
fell deeper into anarchy when interim leader Adolfo Rodriguez
Argentina's biggest political force, the Peronists, who ruled 
from 1989-99, withdrew support from Rodriguez Saa, accusing him 
of being power-hungry, and convinced other parties to accept in 
his stead Peronist heavyweight Senator Eduardo Duhalde.

Landed with the provisional presidency for 48 hours, the head of 
the lower house of Congress, Eduardo Camano, called on senators 
and deputies to hold a legislative assembly today which should 
rubber-stamp Duhalde's appointment.
The country of 36 million people is living in fear of more shop 
looting and violence that killed 27 people before De la Rua 
quit, of more riots like those that erupted on Friday and of 
more misery as a four-year-old recession grinds on.

Latin America's third-largest economy has declared a moratorium on foreign debt payments - Rodriguez Saa's first act as leader - and commerce has halted since cash withdrawals were limited to $1,000 a month to stop a panic run on banks.
Argentina has no way out," said a woman lining up outside a bank 
in the rain from before dawn to try to get her cash.
While the moratorium on part of Argentina's $132-billion public 
debt, heralding the biggest default in history, had long been 
expected by markets that have dumped Argentine bonds this year, 
Rodriguez Saa's plans for a new currency caused alarm.

