Bush had made a mistake when he called Taiwan a country in a 
speech last week, the official Xinhua news agency reported on
Washington told China the U.S. government has not changed its 
Taiwan policy and said it would not refer to Taiwan in that way 
again, Xinhua quoted a foreign ministry spokeswoman as saying.

Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be 
reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an 
explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a 
country.
Bush was referring to the entry late last year and this year of
The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral 
ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.

But foreign ministry officials later confirmed both sides were 
moving ahead with plans for a scheduled visit by Chinese 
Vice-President Hu Jintao to the United States in late April.
BEIJING -- The United States told China U.S. President George W.

Reports in Taiwanese newspapers on Friday said Bush called the 
island the "Republic of Taiwan" and a "country" in a speech to 
diplomats and business executives on Thursday.
Calling Taiwan a country would threaten to compromise a major 
pillar of Sino-U.S. relations, which were set up in 1979 largely 
based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states 
that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.
Taiwan's ***United Daily News ***quoted a U.S. official as 
saying Bush's labeling Taiwan as a republic was a "slip of the 
tongue" and indicated no shift in U.S. policy.

