Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct 
at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless 
armchair hyperbole.
States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against 
making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures, 
which were published worldwide.

Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in 
Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.
Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners 
should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva 
Convention.
While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the 
United States.

Officials at Guantanamo have said that no interrogation has taken place on the base and that the prisoners do not have lawyers.
Asked what benefit the United States gets by not classifying the 
captives as prisoners of war, Mr. Rumsfeld said, "I don't know 
enough of the legal technicalities to answer your question.

Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the 
Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries 
but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which 
some of the prisoners apparently belong. "
To give standing under 
a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a 
country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did 
not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent," 
he said.
In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today 
whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the 
detention of the prisoners in Cuba.

